---
layout: post
title: Responsible Research Conversations Event at TU/e
mathjax: true
---


The **Responsible Research Conversations** will bring together researchers and professional staff to showcase—and strengthen—TU/e’s growing ecosystem of responsible research practices. The gathering supports key TU/e priorities—Open Science, Recognition & Rewards, social safety, research integrity, sustainability, and talent development—by connecting colleagues already active in these areas and encouraging others to engage.

As TU/e advances toward its 2030 vision, fostering a culture of talent development, collaboration, and resilience is more crucial than ever. These values are inseparable from the way we conduct research: responsibly, honestly, and openly. Responsible research is not just a compliance requirement—it’s a shared opportunity to build a stronger, more collaborative, future-ready university.

This event will take place on **September 18, 2025** from 9:00 to 13:00. You can register for this event by filling the registration form here: [Registration Form](https://www.tue.nl/en/our-university/calendar-and-events/18-09-2025-responsible-research-conversations)

**What you can expect**

- Advance conversations across overlapping concepts, principles, and communities (responsible research practices, research integrity, open science, social safety).

- Celebrate the work of TU/e researchers and professionals who are driving responsible research.

- Foster academic citizenship and interdisciplinary collaboration.

- Strengthen TU/e’s position as a national and international leader in research culture and integrity.

**Program highlights**

Alongside panel and discussion sessions, the morning features interactive presentations and hands-on workshops. Participants can:

- Explore open and responsible scholarly practices in action.

- Try a pilot training on responsible research assessment.

- Play Full Circle to experience integrity and collaboration dilemmas.

- Assess the sustainability of their own projects with Impact Unpacked.

- Learn responsible data preservation in Farewell My FAIR Data.

- Discover support services such as TU/e’s Product Area Research team.

- Use tools like PaperCheck to strengthen publishing best practices.

- Connect with TU/e communities—including the Open Science Community, the Eindhoven Meta-Science Center, the Sustainability Office, and the Career Development Policy team—who will present their projects and invite you to get involved.

Join us to connect, share, and help shape the future of responsible research at TU/e.

